# Q & A

## 2022.xx.yy

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: Sandbox

#### 1. Secret info

We have two tokens:

    ALGOD_ADDRESS = "http://localhost:4001"
    ALGOD_TOKEN = "aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"

    KMD_ADDRESS = "http://localhost:4002"
    KMD_TOKEN = "aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"

Who is allowed to know them?

System admin? (the person responsible for the node)

Everyone who has account in the system?

#### 2. Access to container

If I have access to the container I have full administrative access to the node.

true/false

#### 3. Tokens and URLs

If I have access to tokens and URLs:

    ALGOD_ADDRESS = "http://localhost:4001"
    ALGOD_TOKEN = "aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"

    KMD_ADDRESS = "http://localhost:4002"
    KMD_TOKEN = "aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"


then I have full administrative access to the node.

true/false

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: Money problems

#### 1. How can I introduce new money in the system?

Is it possible to introduce new money into the system?

From external source, not from existing account.

Something like wire transfer: from external source to account X send 1k algos.

#### 2. How were the default accounts populated with money?

#### 3. Can I create a new account that at the moment of creation has some money?


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: the structure of information

#### 1. Who is the owner of the account?

Maybe: The person who knows PRIVATE KEY?

If I know a private key it means that I can transfer the money from this account?

#### 2. Account identifier and key

    ID:   ZJDUSUDA7FIGOCVGULGHIR67GFSKRDVYKYM5LPTLRCQDRRE2XWRCWJVULE
    KEY:  'hwIw8S0XgMLhzO7wAQWeKGXREYf6E/xf1Mp+TAvRPLXKR0lQYPlQZwqmosx0R98xZKiOuFYZ1b5riKA4xJq9og=='

Can ID be publicly available or should I protect my ID?

Key probably should be protected. Right?

Who is the owner of the account?

The person who knows the private key?

#### 3. Account status

What is the full list of account statuses?

account status: not participating

What is it?


#### 4. ONLINE/OFFLINE account: CAN/CANNOT mine?

ONLINE: the account can participate in the blockchain creation.

Does it mean: it can mine?


#### 5. What happens to the money when I delete an account?

    goal account delete -a SBAR6AROAPJCDL7TCY2WOUZJRYHLMJFHXXVVAYDI4QTNWFB6OLBOBSFU7M


#### 6. Why there is no command do delete a wallet?

#### 7. What is "total money" and "online money"???


    goal ledger supply

        Round: 149
        Total Money: 10000030000006998 microAlgos
        Online Money: 5000015000006998 microAlgos

#### 8. How to check network in sandbox?


    goal network status --rootdir /opt/testnetwork


But there is no info about any nodes.
Why?


#### 9. Documntation says: there are no accounts with balance 0 (the system does not accept them)

The way to create an account is:
* create address
* send money to addres


What does it mean then?

root@13be1da5258e:~/testnetwork/Node# goal account list
[offline]	company	TYKGXB5JW5UHFNCRMLN2RTCZKH64JTODWR6NVW5HAOYFRWOFZCPSWFNZEI	0 microAlgos
[offline]	home	VMUSJTKGHJWE5FTS35RANRUGYZI2ETJLGWCUFRV3GWSBIGRAW4WBK7UO5M	0 microAlgos	*Default


It means, that the command:

    goal account new

just creates an address. Wihout a transfer this account remains empty and is not registered in the ledger.
Right?

#### 10. People own wallets, wallets contain accounts

Me (Vlad Gajda): I own a wallet named abc. I know its password and mnemonic.

With this password and mnemonic:
* I can list all accounts in abc wallet
* I can list private keys for all accounts in abc wallet
* I can send the money from any account in abc wallet to someone else

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: wallet

#### 1. A new wallet: what is it? A new currency?

Is a new wallet created with the `goal wallet new X` command identical to Pera Algo Wallet?

#### 2. How to delete a wallet?

Remove all accounts with:

goal account delete -a X


cd /opt/testnetwork/Node/kmd-v0.5/sqlite_wallets
goal kmd stop
rm unencrypted-default-wallet.d7a02549627e796b2801ea8d4aaed5f1.db
goal kmd start


#### 3. Why does every wallet have exactly the same size 28672?


-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 28672 Aug 12 12:42 euro.c32cb5311453125b2686652ba8651178.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 28672 Aug 12 13:07 foobar.9f39a28cbda8b0f2e2194be77b805bb1.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 28672 Aug 12 13:07 xyz.6935b020a6f20118000fa6897ecab389.db




---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: https://explorer.dappflow.org

#### 1. List of accounts on https://explorer.dappflow.org

Why are the lists of accounts displayed by:

    goal account list

and by the web interface:

    https://explorer.dappflow.org/explorer/accounts

different? The latter contains three more accounts:

    AXLGGZALVI6BZDTJJRWWJLNWRPE6GTI5A4A4SBOOG2ZF7JKNU34H4G4S6E  - ONLINE
    A7NMWS3NT3IUDMLVO26ULGXGIIOUQ3ND2TXSER6EBGRZNOBOUIQXHIBGDE  - NotParticipating
    777777777777777777777777777777...                           - NotParticipating


What are those accounts?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: Money transfer

#### 1. Sending money to my account

If someone knows my account id he can send me money.
(just like in a traditional Bank account)

Can I reject it somehow?

Can I block money transfer to my account?

#### 2. Using CLI goal inside container I can send from anyone to anyone


Working with goal command I have access to all accounts.

Unrestricted access.

Right?



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: goal cli

#### 1. How to list application transactions with goal CLI?


    goal app info --app-id=15
    goal account info -a F5SVYACBT4LX6PHNS5RWJJPX2K462PQETQJOJENRR2QY3VJ2AKUOX2EHRM



distributed vs decentralized
