# Q & A

## 2022.08.10

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: Sandbox

#### 1. Sandbox is isolated one node not connected to any external net. Is it true?

**ANSWER**

YES. It is true.

If you want to connect to testnet use params of sandbox command:

    ./sandbox up SOME-PARAMS

**DEFAULT CONFIG**

Sandbox contains just one node which is not connected to any network.

It contains an isolated blockchain network that consists of a single node.

We can destroy the node and recreate it from scratch.

Everytime we start it afresh it will be exactly the same node with the same:

* wallet
* accounts

Wallet:

    ##################################################
    Wallet:	unencrypted-default-wallet (default)
    ID:	d7a02549627e796b2801ea8d4aaed5f1
    ##################################################

Accounts:

    [online]	PTRXEOWPFCFJY5J6DCAWBQSZBUXVDLXLPKGRJKXFG66272THGXC2FPI7QE	PTRXEOWPFCFJY5J6DCAWBQSZBUXVDLXLPKGRJKXFG66272THGXC2FPI7QE	4000004000000000 microAlgos
    [offline]	SBAR6AROAPJCDL7TCY2WOUZJRYHLMJFHXXVVAYDI4QTNWFB6OLBOBSFU7M	SBAR6AROAPJCDL7TCY2WOUZJRYHLMJFHXXVVAYDI4QTNWFB6OLBOBSFU7M	4000004000000000 microAlgos
    [offline]	ZJDUSUDA7FIGOCVGULGHIR67GFSKRDVYKYM5LPTLRCQDRRE2XWRCWJVULE	ZJDUSUDA7FIGOCVGULGHIR67GFSKRDVYKYM5LPTLRCQDRRE2XWRCWJVULE	1000001000000000 microAlgos

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: Money problems

#### 1. A new account does not have money. How can I add money to the account?

When I create a new account with:

    goal account new LOREM

it does not have any money.

How can I add money to the account?


**ANSWER**

1. For testnet there is dispenser: https://dispenser.testnet.aws.algodev.network/

2. For sandbox there is the command:

```
    goal clerk send
    goal clerk send --from PTRXEOWPFCFJY5J6DCAWBQSZBUXVDLXLPKGRJKXFG66272THGXC2FPI7QE --to JOHN --amount 100000
```

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: the structure of information

#### 1. Basic structure is: wallet / account

An account is assigned to a wallet.

Is that right?


**ANSWER**

Yes and No.

We can export account in one wallet and import it in another wallet.

But in general: yes. An account is in a wallet.

#### 2. Account info

The account created with:

    goal account new LOREM

is displayed by:

    goal account list

with the label LOREM.

But the function `account_info`:

    def getAlgodClient() -> AlgodClient:
        return AlgodClient(ALGOD_TOKEN, ALGOD_ADDRESS)

    client = AlgodClient(ALGOD_TOKEN, ALGOD_ADDRESS)
    account_info = client.account_info(ac.getAddress())

does not return this label. Why?
Is this label stored in the system or not?

Also: this label is not displayed by https://explorer.dappflow.org

WHY?

Is this label important for any reason or not?


**ANSWER**

This label is used by `goal` cli command. Nothing else.


#### 3. Account: online / offline

Account status: `online`

Is there any: login operation?

I assumed that it is completely stateless.


**ANSWER**

`ONLINE`: the account can participate in consensus / propose blocks.
(Does it mean: it can mine?)

`OFFLINE`: the account cannot participate in consensus / propose blocks.
(Does it mean: it can not mine?)

When it comes to money transfer: ONLINE/OFFLINE has no impact.

#### 4. Account is a bank account

Can I think about this account like about `bank account`?
Anyone who knows my account id can send me the money. Right?

**ANSWER**

YES

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: https://explorer.dappflow.org

#### 1. Interface of https://explorer.dappflow.org

How can I display a contents of a different wallet with this UI?

**ANSWER**

You can't. This UI does not allow to change the wallet.

It simply uses the first wallet it can find on a given node.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: Money transfer

#### 1. Sending money in the same wallet

We are in the wallet X.

Can I send money from arbitrary account A (in wallet X) to arbitrary account B (in wallet X)?

Always?

**ANSWER**

Yes. If you are the owner of account A and if you know the ID of the account B you can send the money.

The only restrictions are:
* you must have necessary amount of money on your account
* there can be a minimal transfer amount (for example 0.001 Algo)
* there can be a network fee for sending money - you must have enough money for the fee;
  it will be deducted from your account

#### 2. Cross wallet sending money

Can I send money from arbitrary account A (in wallet X) to arbitrary account B (in wallet Y)?

**ANSWER**

Yes you can. You just need to specify the wallet.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CATEGORY: blockchain


#### 1. Performance problem

Blockchain will contain all the transactions in its db.

It is like traditional db + all activity log.

From my experience: activity log was always the largest table and it caused constant troubles.

Here, in blockchain, we will have activity log embedded in the solutions.
And this will be an activity log for any kind of transaction in the system.

And we want to copy this db on every node.

How large this db can get for a real use case
(for example adding blockchain data for the songs that we have in Napster).

**ANSWER**

We can store on the laptop only a part of the complate chain.
Something like: shallow clone of git repo.
